Rewrite custom groups (#82)
owncloud/docs-webui: modules/classic_ui/pages/personal_settings/custom_groups.adoc

= Custom Groups
:toc: right
:page-aliases: files/webgui/custom_groups.adoc, \
next@server:user_manual:files/webgui/custom_groups.adoc, \
{latest-server-version}@server:user_manual:files/webgui/custom_groups.adoc, \
{previous-server-version}@server:user_manual:files/webgui/custom_groups.adoc

> :description: With Custom Groups, users are able to define their own groups and manage contributing users themselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: With custom groups, users are able to define their own groups and manage contributing users themselves.
```

== Introduction

{description} To use custom groups, the administrator has to enable this feature.

== Notes

Note that the admins can:

> * Restrict that only the admin group can manage custom groups,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Restrict the management of custom groups to admins
```

> * Define that admins do not have access to custom groups created,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Define that admins do not have access to custom groups
```

> * Define that named global groups can not use the custom groups feature 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Define that global groups can not use the custom groups feature 
```

> For details get in contact with your administrator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details contact your administrator.
```

== Creating Custom Groups

To configure custom groups, go to menu:Settings[Personal > Custom Groups]

image::personal-settings/custom-groups/user_settings_custom_groups.png[The Custom Groups administration panel]

To create a new custom group:

* in the text field at the top where you see the placeholder text: btn:[Group name]

> * add the group name and click btn:[Create group].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* enter the group name and click btn:[Create group].
```

You will see the new custom group appear in the groups list.

[NOTE]
====
Please be aware of two things:

> . Custom groups are visible *only* to members of the group, but *not* to anyone outside the group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Custom groups are visible *only* to members of the group, but *not* to anyone outside the group.
```

> . By default, ownCloud administrators can see and modify all custom groups of an instance which is a setting that can be changed by the admin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. By default, ownCloud administrators can see and modify all custom groups but this setting can be changed by the admin.
```

====

== Managing Custom Groups

> You can _add users_, _remove users_ or _change a users role_. In any case, click on the group name and a new frame will appear as shown in the image below. Any changes can only be made if you are either ownCloud admin with custom group permission or group admin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can _add users_, _remove users_ or _change a user's role_. Click on the group name and a new frame will appear as shown in the image below. Changes can only be made if you are either ownCloud admin with custom group permission or group admin.
```

image::personal-settings/custom-groups/manage-group-members.png[Manage members in a custom group, width=300]

* When adding a user, just start typing the username and suggestions will get listed.

> * If the ownCloud admin has enabled the guests app, you can also invite external guests to this group. To do so, just type the email address of the guest to invite. It is not sufficient to add an external user to a custom group to grant him access to your ownCloud. The custom group must be member of a share that is created. The external user will then be able to access the shares granted to the custom groups where he is member of.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the ownCloud admin has enabled the Guests app, you can also invite external guests to this group. To do so, just type the email address of the guest to invite. It is not sufficient to add an external user to a custom group to grant him access to your ownCloud. The custom group must be member of a share that is created. The external user will then be able to access the shares granted to the custom groups he is member of.
```

+
NOTE: An ownCloud administrator can create a domain blocklist for guest user invitation.

> * When removing a user, click on the btn:[Waste bin] symbol on the right side of the user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When removing a user, click on the btn:[Waste bin] symbol on the right side of the user.
```

> * Click on the btn:[Pen] symbol to change the users role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Click on the btn:[Pen] symbol to change the users role.
```

> * With the button _Leave this group_, you can remove yourself from the group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* With the button _Leave this group_, you can remove yourself from the group.
```

> * With buttons _Export as CSV_ and _Import as CSV_ you can export or import your group members with their roles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Via the buttons _Export as CSV_ and _Import as CSV_ you can export or import your group members and their roles.
```

> NOTE: Members can only use a group for sharing, whereas group owners can manage a group’s members, change a group’s name, change members’ roles, and delete groups. You can add as many group owners as you like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Members can only use a group for sharing, whereas group owners can manage group membership, change a group’s name, change members’ roles and delete groups. You can add as many group owners as you like.
```

== Changing Group Names

> If you want to change the name of the custom group, mouseover the group’s name in the custom groups list, where you will see a pencil appear to the right of the existing name. Click it, and a text field will appear, pre-populated with the existing name. Change the name and click enter, and the name will be changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to change the name of a custom group, move the mouse over the group’s name in the custom groups list, and a pencil will appear to the right of the current name. Click on it, and a text field will appear with the existing name. Change the name and click enter.
```

image::personal-settings/custom-groups/rename-custom-group.png[Rename a custom group,width=300]

== Sharing With the Group

> To share a file or folder with your custom group, which is not different to xref:files/webgui/sharing.adoc[sharing files and folders]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sharing a file or folder with your custom group works like xref:files/webgui/sharing.adoc[sharing files and folders] with other users:
```

> * Open the btn:[Sharing] panel in your files view

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Open the btn:[Sharing] panel in your files view.
```

> * Then, in the btn:[User and Groups] field, type part of the name of the custom group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Then, in the btn:[User and Groups] field, type part of the name of the custom group.
```
